---
published: false
---

# It's the Implementation that Matters!

Since considering my drastic career change from teacher to possible coder, a particular quote seems to drive my decision.  You see I have a vision.  I want to create something to help teachers like me not get to the point where I am and want to quit.  I understand that the world really does need more teachers like me.  I love teaching and I still truely believe that it is my vocation.  So what's wrong with me you ask?  Why would I even think of leaving?  Well, you see those answers I wish to share with you in time.  But now back to that quote.  It goes like this, "It is not the idea that matters, but the implementation of it that counts."  Anyone can have a great idea, but not everyone can actually make it happen.  

Which leads me to today; I was asked to go observe another school that has "implemented"  a new reading series.  I was asked to see this series in action and make my own evaluation of whether or not it is worth adopting next year at my school.  Fully aware of the fact that I would most probably not be teaching next year and would not be there to fully "implement" anything, I still took the job seriously. I went and sat there asking questions to my fellow elementary school teachers.  When I asked them how they felt about the book series they stated, "It's okay."  They began to say how they were thrown into this new textbook with little training and little know how on how to "implement" in the classroom.  They spoke to me about the kind of workbooks it came with, how the spelling words were presented, and the way vocabulary was introduced in context.  When a teacher asked one of the students to bring her the workbook; the student simply replied saying "I don't have one.  What does it look like again?"  This school, much like mine will soon be doing, put a great deal of their budget into this new textbook series in hopes of it changing their curriculum.  The truth is a textbook does not have the power to change a curriculum.  The teacher holds that power.  The teacher dictates the curriculum.  

As the teachers went back and forth speaking about the textbook series, the quote that's been driving my decisions recently came to mind.  "It is not the idea, but the implementation that counts."  I remembered how the students in the schools of Villa El Salvador, Peru, a poor district in Lima that I visited every summer for five years did not have books or workbooks.  The students there did not even have pencils.  My students in the first charter school that I taught at had little resources and often did not have workbooks. The teachers would have to make supplemental copies or activities on their own.  

I feel that here lies a great problem with education.  We worry so much about the presentation.  How things look; what textbooks or publishers we are using; but the truth is none of that truly matters.  Teachers in Peru with no resources available to them were still able to teach students how to read.  There are amazing teachers in low-income schools without a new edition of textbooks that still manage for students to pass grade levels.  So, yes textbooks are somewhat necessary and help students achieve high standards.  Yet, when analyzing this new series I noticed something.  The lessons are pretty much all made up for you, the standards are listed and targets for each lesson are made clear.  This leaves little room for teacher creativity; for teacher expertise.  In the 21st century classroom, where do these publishing series leave room for the integration of current events or research?  How does this series lead our students to becoming 21st Century learners? 

Should which textbook series we use in the classroom really be the main focus as we close a school year?  What really matters is the educator standing inside the four walls of a classroom.  How do they teach?  How do they interact with the students?  How can they implement all the ideas students need to grow and make decisions?  If we could only stop worrying about silly publishers or all the fluff, maybe just maybe teachers can just teach.  Which lead me back to, "It's not the idea that matters but the implementation of it that counts."  